---
title: New Han Solo
date: 2018-05-28 18:17 UTC
tags: example
image: https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1POq96FNkNaQazmILD2zOFkUAToi5xypF
author: Nick
---

*"Ive got a good feeling about this."*  - new Han Solo
<!--
My primary concern with the Disney run Star Wars franchise is the Blockbuster design of big budget movies. This has disturbed me about the recent Star Wars movies. Emphasis on large, undecipherable action scenes,  plots centering around large dubious catastrophic goals that the audience has to simply accept,  incredibly over simplistic motivations for characters who wield massive power. I know it sells because it's fun, but that's not what made the original Star Wars so special.  It was the depth of the universe, the hero's journey, the philosophy of the dark/light balance, the mythos surrounding the characters and world, protection/love of family and tribe(and species). It seems that with Blockbuster designed movies the characters and plot serve the action, while in the original Star Wars movies the action served the characters and plot.
-->
This movie could have gone bad in so many ways.  Formalizing the mythos of Han Solo into hard canon and codifying the imaginations of legions of fans onto the big screen is a very dicey proposition, walking a tightrope over a river of crocodiles, except instead of a crocodiles to worry about, a billion dollar franchise is at stake as well as the respect of a notoriously devoted fan base. Han Solo is as sacred of a character in the Star Wars franchise as any,  and his surrounding mythos is one fans have been idolizing for decades. (*Where did those dice come from?* ) This requires the movie to go almost *perfectly*. Not too heavy handed or too light handed. Therefore, I admire the courage and gusto required to make this movie.  

  I really wanted to dislike this movie.  I was on the edge of my seat waiting for the main actor to do or say something to anger me and bring out my Star Wars snobbery and say "That's not Han Solo". I really wanted the plot to be cheesy enough to make me discard this entire movie as an uninspired money grab. That being said, I really, truly, enjoyed the movie. A gritty movie about the life of a mercenary set against the backdrop of the Star Wars universe.  No Jedi briging balance to the galaxy, no huge starfleet battles, no galaxy destroying space stations.  Just a guy with a blaster making his way through a huge fascinating sci-fi universe. You could remove all associations with Star Wars and it would still be a good movie. I will absolutely watch it again and happily accept the movie and the new Han Solo into Star Wars canon.

  The key things that a Star Wars movie has to capture are the vastness of the universe, exotic aliens and cultures, cool futuristic technology, legendary characters, and a chaotic unruly existence. From the mines of Corellia to the sands of Savereen this movie captured all of that well. The character development was solid, you can actually feel Ehrenreich's Han Solo grow in swagger and confidence as the movie progresses, Clarke's Qi'ra gives you a subtle sense of latent reluctance and sinister intent, and Harrelson's Beckett is the perfect mercenary/mentor who never risks crossing the line into overly-sentimental father figure territory.  As far as production goes, the costumes are outstanding, the Enfys Nest mercenaries have some fantastic blend of cyberpunk and tribal gear, Dryden Voss presents as terrible and intimidating with his unexplained facial scars, and Solo and crew are costumed perfectly in futuristic working man garb. The special effects are understated with neither the Marvel headpounding explosion per second abuse or overuse such that it takes you out of the immersion. A laser is a laser, a worm creature is a worm creature, and a holographic  djarkik getting smashed by an angry wookie is well just that.

Also, the Easter Eggs are amazing for a hard core fan.  Keep an eye out for them.  I think this movie demonstrates conclusively that Han is definitely the kind of person who shoots first.

  That being said I had some minor qualms.
  Some of the plot devices are a little far fetched.  A tiny human made starship escaping a massive interstellar force is a lot more Michael Bay than Stephen Hawking but the Narrative license isn't overly abused, and it's still fun to watch the Kessel Run made in under 12 parsecs. Also,  mercenaries in the Disney Star World universe are remarkably novelistic and romantic compared to what human beings are capable of. Comparing Disney villians to the cartel from Sicario is a profound difference.
  Also, there isn't a satisfactory amount of depth to the characters, especially Han. No major quirks, issues, or flaws. The original Han had a deep cynicism toward almost everything at the beginning: the force, the rebellion, the princess, etc. (*"I've got a bad feeling about this!"*) He was not a hero and he made it clear to everyone. He was all about the credits. And I felt he had deep insecurities that drove him, underlying the bravado. Maybe there wasn't enough time to flesh out the character fully and future movies will expand on that, but this new Han seemed to simply be an confident happy go lucky kid with some charm, who winds up on top. (*I'm going to be the best pilot in the galaxy!*) I feel like if the new Han was in a trash compactor with a tentacle creature he would have acted way more heroic than old Han(*One things for sure we're all going to be a lot thinner.*).

  Critical to the movies success was portraying Han in a believable way. Portraying the swaggering, snarky, charming, cynical, ladies man, mercenary with a heart of gold that Harrison Ford brought to life is an nearly impossible task. Like Rocky and Stallone or Lector and Hopkins, Han Solo is a character so enmeshed with the actual actors energy, that portraying the role is equal parts portraying the actor themselves. I feel Ehrenreich's did a good of job as anyone could have at this.  He makes an extremely serviceable Han Solo and captures the personality traits mentioned above as well as possible given the screen writing. In future movies I would like to see a little more cynicism and a little more subtle self doubt in the dialogue underlying the bravado as well as some of Han's less admirable traits like sarcasm and mocking.  (*I'm not in it for you, princess.*)

  Overall I think this movie was an great success and really hope the financial woes aren't going to cause issues with making more Solo movies.

  Why don't they just take a page out of Han's play book?  
  It only cost 200 million to make the movie if you round down.
